[Home](index.md) 

# My Exit Ticket

  I wanted to register for this course originally because I had Dr. Gragam as a guest lecturer in my second year Historian's Craft class and the work he was doing seemed really interesting, and a way that the study of History was evolving. Then one of my friends took the class last summer and had very postive things to say about it. Another reason that I wanted to take it is that I already had some knowledge of coding from highschool, was aware of some aspects of Python and R but not super knowedgeable about them so I thought it would be a good place to start to remember those skills and learn new ones to apply to my schoolwork. So when I saw it was being offered this summer I decided to register. 

  I was on a co-op placement from January to the end of April, and ended up extending my contract through till the end of the summer. I thought that I would still have the drive/motivation to handle one class while I was working and do the work in the evening or on weekend evenings after I finished my side job delivering pizza's weekend afternoons. However with COVID, I began to work from home and it halted my employer's plans to hire 2-3 students for the summer. This meant that I began to take on more work during the day while working from home. I got to a point where I was almost feeling burned out and during the evenings/freetime I would often just spend them doing absolutely nothing or spending it on frivolous activities since I had no drive to do anything. This led to me falling behind on some of the class work, and to me completing two weeks of material, plus this exit ticket in less than a week. This led to some of my work being rushed, however I think I was still able to complete all of the necessary tasks in a satisfactory manner. While I would have liked more time to polish and dive deeper, I still feel like I had grew as a historian and fulfilled the learning outcomes. I know that going forward I need to help myself separate my working space from my personal space so that I am better able to handle multiple priorities (work, school, social life, etc.) all at once.

  Because of this coruse I've started to learn how to look at historical text and documents with a different lens. While I had taken digital humanities courses before, and had even looked in depth at some digital exhibit tools, I had not thought a lot about how to look at traditional historical artifacts, documents, etc. with digital tools. I had used voyant before but that was always in the context of using it for shakespeare, or other literary books and not for historical purposes. As I mentioned in my journal in Week 5, learning more about alternative visualization methods has made me realize that I could improve a lot of my work by considering how my arguments would look using the different mediums. By thinking about the work more closely, I'd have a better understanding of it and would be able to better present my arguments and findings to people. This course has made me realize that there are so many ways to approach history scholarship, especially with digital tools. I had known of R, python, Voyant, etc. before this class but it was always in relation to other disciplines like computer science, English, Sports Analytics, etc. and I never considered that we could also use them for History. But my work during week 6 showed me that I can take these digital analytic skills I've learned and apply them to historical objects in order to analyze them. I was able to use Voyant and AntConc to study the usage of words in historic newsletters, and I was able to identify areas where the research could be expanded upon with different tools and with more time. This course has also shown me that I should embrace the chaos and failures of projects. I've learned that documenting all of the work done is important, and not just submitting the final clean copy that was built up of 7 different moving pieces. I've started to do a better job of recording what I do when I do it instead of going back and either writing things well after I did them, or ignoring all the first steps and only focusing on the end product. This, coupled with the notion that if it doesn't work in 30 minutes it probably won't work in 2 hours has been very helpful and useful to focus on de-stressing and taking a fresh look at the problem later. I was able to solve a few of the errors I faced by doing this.
  
  Originally, my view of Digital History was that it was just a modern approach to studying history using digital tools, but it had evolved to being a field where people can preserve and amplify histories that were previously forgotten/ignored. Reading that twitter thread from week 1 really showed how that was the case and the plethora of resources confirmed that. I took this a step further in week 6 as I explored a FtM newsletter from the early 90s. With the lgbtq+ community gaining acceptance in society now, it is important to look back in history to see their story that was often ignored. By looking into it, I was able to gain a new appreciation for those that work to preserve history digitally. After doing some of the work required in weeks 1-4, it really is a lot of effort. I always knew there was a lot of effort required to create the tools and to use the tools but I never actually realized just how much effort it can actually take. As was mentioned in the instructions for Week 6, sometimes 80% of the time can be spent on shaping the data into something that we can analyze. I have come to appreciate it more after using and doing some of the work myself. I don't think my view or understanding of the idea of Digital History has changed much, only that now I have a much larger sense of appreciation for the work that is required to democratize / make things ready and available for all consumers of history. 
  
  Reflecting back on my work this term, I wouldn't say I had any colossal failures, other than mismanaging my time. I think the discord server was very helpful for this because on multiple occaisons I ran into an error or a problem and I searched the discord channels for the same error and pretty much every single time I did I found someone else who had the same or similar errors that other members were able to help them figure out. Early on in this course before I let the work pile up I did occaisonally contribute to these discussions to help people solve their problems which felt good. I enjoyed the social aspect of this course. We were able to communicate whenever we had issues instead of only during set hours during the week. It made the it feel more like a collaborative effort than a simple class. It being on discord was also easy for me to fit into my everyday life as I am on discord far too often in various servers. I think the layout of this class works really well for online classes and should be continued in one form or another. I wishI had not mismanaged the time as a lot of the bonus work seemed to be really interesting and assuming this site stays up in a similar form I may revisit them later as a fun exercise and to improve my digital historical skills. This was really apparent in weeks 5 and 6 where I found the content to be really enjoyable. As I used to have a decent amount of experience with html and css and creating a website, I would have liked to have the time to polish up my site more and utilize something like Hugo to spruce up the site more and provide some normal functionality. I browsed through some of the sites that people shared on discord and one person used Hugo to build their site and I was quite envious as I loved the look and layout of their site. It had a proper header, a proper footer, cards, etc. If I had more time I would have really liked to turn my site into a hub for all of the work I did this term. Maybe that can be a future goal for other classes I take. I think I may try something along those lines to keep track of all of my work. This would also help me to visualize my work in a different manor so that I can begin to think about it in a different way and allow me to improve it.
  
  
  

  
  <div class="tenor-gif-embed" data-postid="6223416" data-share-method="host" data-width="100%" data-aspect-ratio="2.4292682926829268"><a href="https://tenor.com/view/be-excellent-to-each-other-gif-6223416">Be Excellent To Each Other GIF</a> from <a href="https://tenor.com/search/beexcellenttoeachother-gifs">Beexcellenttoeachother GIFs</a></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="https://tenor.com/embed.js"></script>
  
  
  <div class="tenor-gif-embed" data-postid="3554498" data-share-method="host" data-width="100%" data-aspect-ratio="1.7714285714285714"><a href="https://tenor.com/view/hitchhikers-guide-to-the-galaxy-dont-panic-dolphins-fish-so-long-gif-3554498">So Long And Thanks For All The Fish! - Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy GIF</a> from <a href="https://tenor.com/search/hitchhikersguidetothegalaxy-gifs">Hitchhikersguidetothegalaxy GIFs</a></div><script type="text/javascript" async src="https://tenor.com/embed.js"></script>
  
  
  
[Home](index.md) 


